Add action container info (#697)
OctopusDeploy/docs: docs/deployment-process/execution-containers-for-workers/index.md

---
title: Execution containers for workers
description: How to set a step in your deployment process to run inside a container.
position: 15
---

For a [step](/docs/deployment-process/steps/index.md) running on a [worker](/docs/infrastructure/workers/index.md) or on [Octopus server](/docs/infrastructure/workers/built-in-worker.md) that you define in your [deployment processes](/docs/deployment-process/index.md), you can select a container for the step's execution. 

> ## Minimum requirements for your custom image to run as a worker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Minimum requirements for your step to run in a container
```

> The worker will need Docker installed. 

Reviewer: We should link here to the requirements for a worker, and then say "all of those, plus docker"

Reviewer 2: @emilol I assume those requirements will be on DockerHub right?

Reviewer: I don't think so. The minimum requirements for a worker relate to the host machine that `docker run` will get called from, not the image itself. You can check out the WorkerTools repo for the readme structure we've landed on for DockerHub

---

> title: Execution container for workers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Execution containers for workers
```

To be consistent

> description: Setting an execution container for workers in steps to define your project's deployment process.

Reviewer: I have to admit, I'm a little lost reading this. I'm finding the compound sentence hard to parse because of the number of nouns (and therefore clauses) in the sentence. Does this say the same thing?

```suggestion
description: How to set a step in your deployment process to run inside a container.
```

position: 15
---

For a [step](/docs/deployment-process/steps/index.md) running on a [worker](docs/infrastructure/workers/index.md) or on [Octopus server](docs/infrastructure/workers/built-in-worker.md) that you define in your [deployment processes](/docs/deployment-process/index.md), you can select a container for the step's execution. 

## Setup a container 

- Set a [feed](/docs/packaging-applications/package-repositories/docker-registries/index.md) in Octopus Deploy for a Docker registry.  or link to https://octopus.com/blog/build-a-real-world-docker-cicd-pipeline#add-docker-hub-as-an-external-feed

> - Add a project and define deployment process. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a project and define a deployment process. 
```

- Select a worker pool. 
- Select to run on a container for worker. 
- Choose the previously added container registry. 

> - Enter an image name if already known. (e.g. octopusdeploy/step-execution:0.1.1-ubuntu.18.04)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enter an image name if already known. (e.g. !docker-image <octopusdeploy/worker-tools:ubuntu.18.04>)
```

This will automatically keep the docs up to date when we add new images. [See docs](https://octopusdeploy.github.io/OctoStyle/markdown#referencing-docker-images)

> - Alternatively use the wizard to chose appropriate image. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Alternatively use the wizard to chose appropriate image. 
```

References a wizard we don't have at the moment.

---
title: Execution containers for workers
description: How to set a step in your deployment/runbook process to run inside a container.
position: 15
---

> For a [step](/docs/deployment-process/steps/index.md) running on a [worker](docs/infrastructure/workers/index.md) or on the [Octopus Server](docs/infrastructure/workers/built-in-worker.md) that you define in your [deployment processes](/docs/deployment-process/index.md), you can select a container for the step's execution.

Reviewer 3: Final tweak to simplify the sentence structure and make the point a bit clearer:
```suggestion
For a [step](/docs/deployment-process/steps/index.md) running on a [worker](docs/infrastructure/workers/index.md) or on the [Octopus Server](docs/infrastructure/workers/built-in-worker.md), you can select a container for the step's execution.
```

:::warning
Execution containers for workers are not supported for [Dynamic Worker pools](/docs/infrastructure/workers/dynamic-worker-pools.md)
:::

## Minimum requirements
You need Docker installed and running on the [worker](docs/infrastructure/workers/index.md)/Octopus Server ([built-in worker](/docs/infrastructure/workers/built-in-worker)), in order to use execution containers for workers

## How to use execution containers for workers 

- Configure a [feed](/docs/packaging-applications/package-repositories/docker-registries/index.md) in Octopus Deploy for a Docker registry.
  - [Add Docker Hub as an external feed](https://octopus.com/blog/build-a-real-world-docker-cicd-pipeline#add-docker-hub-as-an-external-feed)
- Add a project and define a deployment process.
- Set the `Execution Location` for your step to `Run on a worker`.
- In `Container Image` select `Runs on a worker inside a container`.
- Choose the previously added container registry.

> - Enter an image name if already known. (e.g. !docker-image <octopusdeploy/worker-tools:ubuntu.18.04>).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enter the name of the image (aka execution container) you want your step to run in. (e.g. !docker-image <octopusdeploy/worker-tools:ubuntu.18.04>).
```

- Click **Save**.
- Click **Create release & deploy**.

:::hint
The same process can be repeated for a runbook.
:::

![](images/selector.png "width=500")

## First deployment on a docker container
Your first deployment on a Docker container might take a while as it will download all the dependencies on the docker image. These dependencies will be installed as a part of deployment process execution automatically. Alternatively, you can pre-pull the desired docker image before your first deployment to avoid any delays.

> ## How to construct an image name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What docker image should I use?
```

> You can find our recommended images on DockerHub [octopusdeploy/worker-tools](https://hub.docker.com/r/octopusdeploy/worker-tools)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- You can use any image that meets the minimum tooling requirements to run your chosen step. 
- You can use our recommended images
- You can build your own based on the recommended images.

## The worker-tools docker images 

We provide recommended images on DockerHub [octopusdeploy/worker-tools](https://hub.docker.com/r/octopusdeploy/worker-tools) that include common tools used for octopus steps. 

```

:::

## Minimum requirements
You need Docker installed and running on the [worker](docs/infrastructure/workers/index.md)/Octopus Server ([built-in worker](/docs/infrastructure/workers/built-in-worker.md)), in order to use execution containers for workers

## How to use execution containers for workers 

- Configure a [feed](/docs/packaging-applications/package-repositories/docker-registries/index.md) in Octopus Deploy for a Docker registry.
  - [Add Docker Hub as an external feed](https://octopus.com/blog/build-a-real-world-docker-cicd-pipeline#add-docker-hub-as-an-external-feed)
- Add a project and define a deployment process.
- Set the `Execution Location` for your step to `Run on a worker`.
- In `Container Image` select `Runs on a worker inside a container`.
- Choose the previously added container registry.
- Enter the name of the image (aka execution container) you want your step to run in. (e.g. !docker-image <octopusdeploy/worker-tools:ubuntu.18.04>).
- Click **Save**.
- Click **Create release & deploy**.

:::hint
The same process can be repeated for a runbook.
:::

![](images/selector.png "width=500")

## First deployment on a docker container

> Your first deployment on a Docker container might take a while as it will download all the dependencies on the docker image. These dependencies will be installed as a part of deployment process execution automatically. Alternatively, you can pre-pull the desired docker image before your first deployment to avoid any delays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::hint
Pre-pulling your chosen image will save you time during deployments.
:::

Your first deployment in a Docker container might take a while as it will download all the dependencies on the docker image. These dependencies will be installed as a part of deployment process execution automatically. Alternatively, you can pre-pull the desired docker image before your first deployment to avoid any delays.
```

## What docker image should I use?

- You can use any image that meets the minimum tooling requirements to run your chosen step. 
- You can use our recommended images
- You can build your own based on the recommended images.

## The worker-tools docker images 

We provide recommended images on DockerHub [octopusdeploy/worker-tools](https://hub.docker.com/r/octopusdeploy/worker-tools) that include common tools used for octopus steps. 

Pick an image that is suitable for your needs based on:
- OS + distribution

> The image also needs to supports the version formats:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The worker tools images have multiple release tracks, based on how you would like to receive updates as they're pushed to docker hub.
```

- Add a project and define a deployment process.
- Set the `Execution Location` for your step to `Run on a worker`.
- In `Container Image` select `Runs on a worker inside a container`.
- Choose the previously added container registry.
- Enter the name of the image (aka execution container) you want your step to run in. (e.g. !docker-image <octopusdeploy/worker-tools:ubuntu.18.04>).
- Click **Save**.
- Click **Create release & deploy**.

:::hint
The same process can be repeated for a runbook.
:::

![](images/selector.png "width=500")

## First deployment on a docker container
:::hint
Pre-pulling your chosen image will save you time during deployments.
:::

Your first deployment in a Docker container might take a while as it will download all the dependencies on the docker image. These dependencies will be installed as a part of deployment process execution automatically. Alternatively, you can pre-pull the desired docker image before your first deployment to avoid any delays.

## What docker image should I use?

- You can use any image that meets the minimum tooling requirements to run your chosen step. 

> - You can use our recommended images

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- You can use our recommended images (see below).
```

- You can build your own based on the recommended images.

## The worker-tools docker images 

We provide recommended images on DockerHub [octopusdeploy/worker-tools](https://hub.docker.com/r/octopusdeploy/worker-tools) that include common tools used for octopus steps. 

Pick an image that is suitable for your needs based on:
- OS + distribution

The worker tools images have multiple release tracks, based on how you would like to receive updates as they're pushed to docker hub.
- Major
- Major.Minor
- Major.Minor.Patch

If the operating system on your worker is Linux, you can use any of the following images: 

- octopusdeploy/worker-tools:ubuntu.18.04
- octopusdeploy/worker-tools:1-ubuntu.18.04
- octopusdeploy/worker-tools:1.0-ubuntu.18.04
- octopusdeploy/worker-tools:1.0.1-ubuntu.18.04

> 

Reviewer 4: And if my operation system on my worker in Windows? Do I just use `octopusdeploy/worker-tools` ?

Reviewer 2: Ah no, so there are windows workers, but not on docker hub just yet. Once they're up I'll add in the details here :)

Reviewer: @ankithkonda this information feels like it would be better on the docker hub page for worker-tools. Mind if I move it there?

Reviewer 2: Sure! that sounds good

Reviewer: [done](https://github.com/OctopusDeploy/WorkerTools/blob/master/README.dockerhub.md)
